[Lion roaring]
[Vehicle approaching]
- Ah... thanks for the ride.
- 0kay.
- Thanks, bud.
- So, what's the deal?
Get going. We don't
have time for breakfast.
Are you, uh, working, or what?
Yeah, I'll be at the station all day,
so you're gonna have to hitch a ride home.
- All right.
- You got practice today?
After that, man, we're on double time.
- Triple.
- [Jed] You should be ashamed of yourself.
You'd think they'd take it down.
Come on, bud. You lost
a football game once yourself.
- What? I don't remember.
- I do.
I think you're lying.
- [Aardvark] Catch you later.
- [Matt] Yeah. See you!
I never know when to believe your mouth!
[Matt] Yeah, likewise.
- Later, bud.
- See you, jed.
- So, did you do your history?
- Yeah. Some of it.
[Teacher] The great hunt
would always begin
with the armies spread out
in a semi-circle, I would say
about the size of Rhode Island.
Then they would ride forward,
driving everything before them.
Beast
men,
even bugs.
Now, the ends would kinda close in
to form a shrinking circle,
and everything within that circle
panicked to get out.
So when the mongols could see each other,
they had worked themselves up
into a pretty good frenzy.
Now, when this killing started,
it'd last for days, weeks,
even months.
And it went on
until the young son of the Khan
asked his father
that the last creature alive...
[Rumbling in distance]
Be allowed to...
Go free.
Well, now, my friend.
Well, now.
[Girl] They're all over.
[Boy] Oh, check it out.
- [Indistinct chatter]
- [Men shouting in distance]
[Boy 2] They look pretty cool,
though, man.
[Teacher] I would say
they were way off-course.
This is very unusual.
[Soldiers speaking Russian]
[Boy] You do something, Mr. Teasdale.
[Boy] He wants to see their hall pass.
[Soldiers speaking Russian]
What's going on here, my friend?
[Gunshots]
[People screaming]
[Gunshots, glass shattering]
[Indistinct shouting]
[Students shouting]
[Explosion]
[Man grunts]
Come on, let's go!
[Gunshots]
[Indistinct shouting]
Get in!
Get down! Get down!
- [Jed] Get in!
- [Aardvark] Wait! Hey!
[Jed] Get down!
[Explosion]
[Boys shouting]
- Run!
- Come on! Get in!
[Boy] Stay down!
[Indistinct shouting]
- [Explosions]
- [Indistinct shouting]
[Distant gunfire]
[Soldier speaking Russian]
[Truck crashing]
Arturo!
[Explosion]
[Speaking Spanish]
Papa! Papa!
[Boy] Get down! Get down!
- No! My father's back there!
- [Boy] Come on, get down!
[Aardvark] Papa!
[Robert] Dad! Dad!
- Dad, they're attacking.
- What's happening? What's happening?
They were shooting at me.
They're shooting at everybody!
- Shooting at you?
- [Jet engine roaring]
We're going to the mountains.
We're getting out of here.
[Mr. Morris] Who are they,
near as you can tell?
[Boy] I heard some of 'em
speaking Spanish, Mr. Morris.
- [Mr. Morris] Did you see any of 'em?
- [Boy 2] With Spain?
[Robert] I want to stay with you.
[Explosion]
- [Mr. Morris] Who are they?
- 0h, my god! Oh, my god!
- [Mr. Morris] Just take it easy.
- [Robert] No...
Boys, get in there,
and get sleeping bags and food.
Right now. Come on.
- Hurry up, boys. Come on, son.
- [Boy] Let's go. Let's move it.
[Mr. Morris] Take the dry stuff!
Don't mess around with
a lot of candies or cookies.
- [Jed] Get the dehydrated stuff!
- [Boy] Got it, yeah.
[Boy 2] Plenty of kleenex!
Somebody, get some lanterns!
[Boy 3] And grab some toilet paper!
I ain't gonna use no leaves!
[Indistinct chattering]
[Mr. Morris] Take a lot of batteries!
All the batteries you can carry!
- Take the shotgun there.
- [Boy] Get those down jackets.
[Aardvark] Matt, look!
[Jed] Get down, get down,
get down, get down, get down!
- [Helicopter approaching]
- Lay down!
[Matt] Is it ours?
- [Mr. Morris] I love you, boy.
- [Robert] I love you, dad.
Tell mom I love her.
- Yeah.
- [Jed] I'll take care of him.
All right, come on, boys.
Just get outta here. Come on.
And don't come back here.
No matter what you see or hear,
don't come back.
I'll come and get you soon enough.
Open the glove compartment.
- Is it there?
- Yeah.
Load it.
- It's already loaded.
- Give it here.
- You want these also, jed?
- Yeah, put 'em in my pocket.
[Jed] Oh, Jesus Christ!
- [Matt] Oh, my god!
- 0h, Jesus! Oh, Jesus!
We're gonna turn off quick.
- [Indistinct shouting]
- [Gunshots]
[Horn honks]
[Explosion]
[Boy] It's a helicopter!
[Gunshots, explosions]
- It's ours!
- [All cheering]
Get in! Get in!
It's ours!
- Did you get it?
- [Jed] Yeah.
That's got it. Only thing is,
we got one problem.
We don't have any water.
How about pissing in it?
[Laughs]
That's a good idea. Get up here.
- How do you know it'll work?
- C'mon. Get up here.
- How old are you, kid?
- 15.
And the name's Danny, not "kid."
Well, when you, uh, grow up,
you'll know these things, Danny.
Now, get up here and piss in the radiator.
[Soldiers speaking Russian]
[Helicopter approaching]
[Gunshots]
[Explosions]
[Explosion]
[Gunfire]
[Soldiers speaking Spanish]
[Gunfire continues]
[In Spanish]
[In Russian]
[Danny] But our families, huh?
What about them? Huh?
[Robert]
We gotta stay up here and hide awhile.
I just wanna go home.
I don't wanna hide.
If I hide, they'll never find me.
Check it out.
It stopped a bullet that would've...
Hit somebody.
I got these.
[Daryl] Those will do us a lot of good.
We've got no radio.
I mean, how long do you think
we can survive up here
on olives and rice krispies?
What else are we gonna do?
As calumet student body president, I...
I forward the motion
that we give ourselves up.
I s... I second the motion.
We can't stay here.
We need stuff and...
Sit down, Danny!
You're not going anywhere.
It's too dangerous to go into town.
- I say we vote on it.
- No.
This isn't the big game, Mr. Quarterback!
- He can go wherever he wants.
- No.
You're such a goddamn jock.
Hey, come on, guys! Knock it off!
You wanna go so bad?
Here, haul ass, take your shit!
[Panting] That goes for the rest of you.
This is your chance. Get walking.
It is world war III down there.
People are being killed.
Those could be Russians.
Jed, what about your family?
Huh?
I don't know.
But I'm alive... and I'm staying here.
My family would want me to stay alive.
Your family would want you to stay alive.
I mean, you think you're so smart, man,
but you're just a bunch of scared kids.
What do you think you are?
Alone, I guess.
No, you're not.
Hey, bud.
What do you say?
[Chuckles]
- I'm with you.
- [Jed] All right.
Now, the rest of you, get going.
All right.
But if you stay, you're gonna do
exactly what I say, okay?
So come on over here and get warm.
Daryl.
Sorry.
Me, too, man.
Okay.
Now, Matt and I have been coming up
in these mountains
with our dad all of our lives.
We can hunt, we can fish,
we can stay up here along, long time.
Okay?
- [Robert] How long, jed?
- [Jet flying overhead]
Until we don't hear that no more.
{gunshofl -i got him!
You got him.
- [Jed] Right, we're gonna eat good.
- He's still breathing!
No, no, no! Never shoot twice!
- Why?
- If you shoot twice, they can find you.
- He's dead, anyway.
- How do you know?
I used to read a lot about
Jedediah Smith and Jim Bridger.
The blackfeet, if you shot twice,
would know right where you were.
My dad named me after jed Smith.
This is your first time, isn't it?
Yeah. Why?
You gotta drink,
if it's your first. We did.
What's it taste like?
It's not too bad. I mean,
it's kinda salty, like a steak,
or when you got a nosebleed, you know.
You gotta do it, Robert.
It's the spirit of the deer.
When you drink it,
you'll be a real hunter.
[Matt] Bottoms up.
Go. Go ahead.
[Jed] Go, go for it, buddy!
All right! All right!
[Matt] You did it, man.
[Laughs]
His blood is yours. You know,
my dad said that once you do that,
there's gonna be something
different about you. Always.
It wasn't so bad.
It wasn't that bad.
That's the last of it,
except for the olives.
We still got plenty of meat left.
Just stuff you shot.
So, tell me, dork, where do you
suppose hamburgers come from?
Nobody shoots them.
We need food.
We need to know.
All right.
We'll go into town.
[Jed] Jesus!
Yeah, there's no one here, either.
Looks like it's been here
for a thousand years.
[Bird calling]
[Jed] Come on.
[Robert] Hey.
Those stores are open.
There's people everywhere.
Maybe it's over.
- Get down!
- Hey! Don't go anywhere.
Those aren't our troops.
You can't tell from here, jed.
Jesus Christ!
[Jed] What is that? I've never
seen a tank like that before.
[Matt] I don't know.
[Robert] Yeah, but they're packed.
That means something.
[Jed] Let's stash our stuff.
- Leave it all here, okay?
- [Matt] Good idea.
That's the mayor's car!
They got Daryl's dad's car!
[Jed] Look at the size of that tank.
[Matt] Jesus!
Lewis. Lewis. How you doing?
[Robert] Was he scared of us?
[Engine rumbling]
Hey, let's ask Alicia. She'll know.
Six toothbrushes, please.
- Oh! Oh, jed!
- Hi. How's your sister?
Wha... where did you come from?
The mountains. We've been hiding...
Are you crazy? You gotta get outta here.
We will, but first, we gotta
find out what's going...
You don't understand.
They know who all of you are.
They're looking for you.
- Who?
- The kgb!
- The Russians?
- And the Cubans!
Cubans.
Look, have you seen my father?
I called, there was no answer.
I went by the station, it was empty.
Okay, listen.
I'm gonna tell you something
I'm not supposed to talk about.
Nobody is, but...
But what?
But they took a lot of people away.
People that they thought were
gonna make trouble for them.
People that had guns
or things they wanted.
They just took them away.
Where?
Re-education camps,
that's what they call it.
The drive-in.
I heard they took a lot of people to...
I pray for you.
[Man over pa] America is a whorehouse,
where the revolutionary ideals
of your forefathers
are corrupted and sold in alleys
by vendors of capitalism.
You grow fat on the flesh
of freedom fighters...
- [Man continues speaking over pa]
- [People shouting]
[Indistinct chatter, shouting]
- [Jed] Hey.
- Yeah?
Could you find my dad,
Tom eckert? I'm jed.
- Matt?
- [Matt] Mr. Barnes?
Matty, I'll go find your dad.
I know right where he is.
Hey! Do you know Morris' market,
out on the highway?
Can you see
if Mr. Morris is in there, too?
I'll look around for him, too, son.
[Man continues speaking indistinctly
over pa]
[Woman sobbing]
Daddy?
It's all right. I can stand up.
Boys.
Matty.
[Matt] Daddy?
Don't talk, don't say anything.
Let me look at you.
Yeah. I knew I was right.
I knew it.
You're alive.
I was tough on both of you.
I did things that made you...
That made you hate me sometimes.
But you understand now, don't you?
What happened, dad?
Why are you here? What did they do?
Doesn't matter.
One way or another...
For one reason or another, we're all gone.
It's all gone.
[Dog barking]
Remember...
Remember when you used
to go in the park and play?
And I used to put you on the swings?
And both of you were...
So damn little, god...
I remember. I remember all of it.
Well, I ain't gonna be around to
pick you up when you fall now.
Both of you gotta
take care of each other now.
We'll never see you again, dad.
Yes, you will.
I don't wanna hear that, Matty.
What happened to mom, dad? Where is she?
We can't afford to be crying anymore now.
I don't want either one of you
to ever cry for me again.
Don't ever do it.
Not as long as you live.
Where's my dad, Mr. Eckert?
I don't know, son.
I don't know.
You all get going now.
Get out before they find you.
Dad?
I love you.
I know you do, son. I love you, too.
I know.
- [Man continues speaking over pa]
- [Jed sniffles]
- Boys!
- [Dog barking]
Avenge me! Avenge me!
[Mr. Barnes] Come on, Tom.
I'll be damned! It is you!
Mr. Mason, how are you doing?
Good to see you!
How you doing, Mr. Mason? Mrs. Mason!
- [Mrs. Mason] I'll get you boys some soup.
- We got us some outlaws here.
I'll take these guns.
Wow, a house!
Go on and find you a chair.
Last time we were in a house
was five weeks!
You look it!
Who you got out there with you?
We got Danny, we got Daryl...
[Chuckles]
Well, we all figured you boys
had headed for fa by now.
What's fa?
Free america. That's the safe zone.
Where are we?
Hell, you boys is in occupied territory.
You're 40 miles behind enemy lines.
That's smack-dab in the middle
of world war III.
What are you boys doing
fooling around town, anyway?
We've been looking for news, Mr. Mason.
We haven't even seen or talked
to anybody since it all started.
Now, wait here just a minute.
I wish there was more.
Sorry.
[Jed] Thank you, Mrs. Mason.
We really appreciate it.
Here, this'll keep you boys warm.
Use this to see where you're
standing from now on.
- A radio? Mr. Mason. We can't take this.
- Oh, no.
Now, that's all right. I got another one.
You boys listen to me.
Don't go to calumet no more.
How come?
Because there's been
some attacks up there.
Uh, people waking up
with their throats cut.
Word has it, it's you.
- No!
- [Matt] We didn't do a thing.
What happened to my dad and mom?
Your daddy's dead, Robert.
- They shot him.
- [Sobbing]
Russians found some guns missing,
so they shot him for aiding guerrillas.
[Robert sobbing]
What do you mean, aiding guerrillas?
He never aided anybody!
We just took the stuff!
[Robert] We killed him!
They killed him, son. Made him an example.
Now, you boys listen to me
and let that burn in real good.
I don't know where your mother is, Robert.
[Robert] I ain't got nobody now!
You boys need food, a bed,
you need anything, you come here.
[Robert sobbing]
I... got a couple of heirlooms
I wanna hide with you.
Hey, Jack, no!
[Mr. Mason] My granddaughters.
They spent two days sneaking here.
Those sons of bitches
tried having their way with 'em.
Toni? Erica?
This is Matt and jed eckert.
They're gonna take care of you.
And I don't wanna know
where they're going.
[Erica] Bye, grandpa.
Thank you, Mr. Mason.
[Mr. Mason] Yes. Thank you.
Well, Mr. Mason...
Good luck, son.
Here. Here's a box of ammo
for your granddaddy's pistol.
- Thanks.
- [Mr. Mason] Good luck to you.
I'll take care of 'em. Don't you worry.
[Woman on radio] It's 11:59
at radio free america,
and this is uncle Sam with music
and the truth until dawn.
Right now I've got a few words
for some of our brothers and sisters
in the occupied zone.
The chair is against the wall.
John has a long mustache.
It's 12 o'clock, Americans.
Another day closer to victory.
And for all of you out there
on or behind the lines,
this is your song.
- [Patriotic music playing]
- [Sobbing]
Things are different now.
They're coming up!
Let's go tell the others.
[In Russian]
[In English] Girl, what are you doing?
[Gunfire]
- [Gunfire]
- [Man, in Russian] Stop!
[Erica whimpering]
Take cover!
[In Russian]
[Screams]
Yuri!
-[Danny] Grab him' -ah! I
- I got him!
- [Shouts]
[In Russian]
[Gunfire]
{gunshofl -ah!
[Gunfire continues]
[Panting]
[Grunts]
[In Russian]
[Gunshot]
[Bird calling]
[Saw scraping]
They were people.
Yeah, well, so was my dad.
What was it like?
It was good.
One thing's for sure now.
No one can ever go home again.
Neven
why don't you make yourself useful?
You wash it!
We ain't ever doing your washing again!
Me and her is as good as any of you!
- So, what's up your ass?
- Shut up!
Don't you ever say that again!
Hear me?
You say that again, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you!
So what did I do?
What you said was wrong.
[In Spanish]
Si, sefior Bella.
No. Daryl, he wouldn't hurt a fly.
Uh. [Stammers] He...
I know my son, colonel.
He's not the guerrilla type.
According to records, mayor,
your son is a prominent student leader.
Ah. Yes, well, he is a leader,
but not in a violent or physical way.
No, you see, Daryl...
He's more of a politician...
[Laughs] Like his father.
A member of an elite
paramilitary organization.
Eagle scout.
Ah. Yes, but that's not military.
Now, look, colonel, if he's alive,
he's scared, he's hungry,
and he's just as anxious to
avoid conflicts as you and me.
- He's not a troublemaker.
- Then, who is?
[Clock chimes]
Well, let's just say it runs
in some of the families.
[Laughs]
This community's indeed fortunate
to have a Shepherd like him!
[Laughing]
Well... I, uh, I just wanna see
this thing through, colonel.
If you have any more problems,
you call me night or day.
Thank you.
We are finished.
For now.
[Soviet anthem plays in distance]
[Grunting]
[Engines rumbling]
[Anthem continues playing]
[Man, in Spanish] Attention!
- Fire!
- [Gunfire]
[In Spanish] Aim!
- Fire!
- [Gunfire]
[Aardvark's father] J“ oh, beautiful j“
j“ for spacious skies j'
[prisoners] J" for Amber waves of grain j“
j“ for purple mountains' majesty j“
j“ above the fruited plain j“
-j' america... j“ -[Gunfire]
-[Men screaming]
[Gunfire continues]
[People shouting]
[Gasping]
Don't cry!
Hold it back!
- Let it turn to something else.
- [Aardvark sobbing]
Just let it turn
into something else, okay?
- [Aardvark] No!
- Listen.
Listen to me! Listen to me! Listen.
Don't cry. Don't you ever cry again
as long as you live.
As long as you live, never do it.
Do you hear me?
[Sobbing]
[Boy] They're gonna kill us! All of us!
So why should we be different?
[Sobbing]
Let it turn to something else, Matty.
Let it turn, let it turn...
[Bell dings]
[In Russian]
[Loud banging]
[Shouts]
[In Russian]
[In Russian] Hey, girl!
[Explosion, screaming]
[In Russian]
[Toni screams]
[Panting, whimpering]
[Gunfire]
[Jed] Run! This way!
[Soldiers speaking Russian indistinctly]
[Soldier speaking Russian]
[Gunfire]
[Explosions]
Wolverines!
[In Russian]
[In English] Sniper!
Ah!
[Gunfire]
[Explosion]
[Gunfire continues]
[Indistinct shouting]
[Man shouting]
[In foreign language] Grenade!
[Explosion]
[Screams]
[In Spanish]
[With Russian accent] Miss, maybe
you speak at me for [speaks Russian].
Um, I'll be right back, okay?
- You bring girlfriend?
- Yeah!
Okay, I be right here. Bye.
[Man, in Spanish]
[Ernesto, in Spanish]
[General, in Spanish]
- [Explosion]
- [Man shouting]
[In Spanish]
[Ernesto speaks Spanish]
[Indistinct shouting]
Doctor!
[Man, in Russian] Call the doctor!
[Jet passing overhead]
[Weapons firing]
[Crashing in distance]
You American?
Yeah, well, what's the capital of Texas?
Austin.
- Wrong, commie! It's Houston!
- Please, darling. I'm cold.
You've seen too many movies.
[Explosions in distance]
Well, you hungry?
I could eat, yeah.
What kinda plane you fly?
Well, I did fly an f-15.
Here.
I'm an eagle driver.
Here. Take this.
I got this off a dead Russian major.
- Major, huh?
- Yeah.
Well, I guess it ought
to fit on a colonel.
You the honcho, sport?
Who are you?
Andrew Tanner,
lieutenant colonel, us air force.
How'd you get yourself shot down, colonel?
It was five to one. I got four.
[Chuckles]
- I'm jed.
- How ya doing, jed?
Good as can be.
[Chuckles]
All right.
West coast.
East coast. Down here is Mexico.
First wave of the attack
came in disguised
as commercial charter flights.
Same way they did in Afghanistan in '80,
only they were crack airborne outfits.
They took these passes in the rockies.
- So, that's what hit calumet?
- I guess so.
They coordinated
with selective nuke strikes,
and the missiles were a hell of a lot more
accurate than we thought.
They took out the silos
here in the dakotas.
Key points of communication.
- Like what?
- [Andy] Oh, like Omaha...
Washington, Kansas City.
- Gone?
- Yeah. That's right.
Infiltrators came up illegal...
From Mexico.
Cubans, mostly.
They managed to infiltrate
the sac bases in the midwest,
several down in Texas,
and wreaked a hell of a lot
of havoc, I'm here to tell you.
They opened up the door down here,
and the whole Cuban and Nicaraguan armies
come walking right through,
rolled right up here
through the great plains.
- How far did they get?
- Cheyenne. Across to Kansas.
We held them at the rockies
and at the Mississippi.
Anyway, the Russians reinforced
with 60 divisions.
Sent three whole army groups
across the Bering strait into Alaska.
Cut the pipeline, came across Canada,
to link up here in the middle,
but we stopped their butt cold.
The lines have...
Pretty much stabilized now.
- What about Europe?
- I guess they figured...
Twice in one century was enough.
They're sitting this one out.
All except england.
And they won't last very long.
The Russians need to take us in one piece,
and that's why they're here now.
That's why they won't use nukes
anymore, and we won't, either.
Not on our own soil.
The whole damn thing's
pretty conventional now.
Who knows? Maybe...
Next week'll be swords.
What started it?
I don't know. Two toughest kids
on the block, I guess.
Sooner or later, they're gonna fight.
That simple?
Maybe somebody just forgot
what it was like.
Well, who is on our side?
Six hundred million screaming chinamen.
Last I heard, there were
a billion screaming chinamen.
There were.
[Fire whooshes]
You got a family?
I don't know.
They got... caught behind
the lines down in Texas.
I like to think they're alive, but...
I hear stories about
what they're doing to civilians.
[Insects chirping]
- Colonel. Get up.
- What?
We're taking off. We're gonna go
shoot up an armored column.
Let's go. Early bird gets the worm.
Early bird gets the worm.
[Gunfire, explosions]
[Indistinct shouting]
[Explosions, gunfire continue]
Watch those claymores in the trees.
[Explosion]
Matt, rpg!
- Whoo! Yeah!
- [Matt] All right!
[Robert] Good shot!
Now, what do you think?
Not bad for a bunch of kids, huh?
[Chuckles] Your mom would be real proud.
[Andy] You think you're tough
for eating beans every day?
There's half a million
scarecrows in Denver
would give anything for one
mouthful of what you got.
They've been under siege
for about three months.
They live on rats and sawdust bread,
and sometimes...
On each other.
[Owl hooting]
At night the...
Pyres for the dead light up the sky.
It's medieval.
All that hate's gonna burn you up, kid.
It keeps me warm.
Colonel?
Are we doing right?
You made a new friend.
[Chuckles]
She doesn't say much, does she?
Something happened to her.
All right. Plane, plane, plane, plane.
Cuban bunker, Russian bunker,
munitions dump, troop tents.
Machine-gun bunkers here,
here, here, and here.
Back here by the drive-in screen
are your political prisoners.
All right. We'll cause
a diversion over here,
cut holes in the wire here,
fire on all these machine-gun positions.
The b group comes across
this area in a flanking maneuver
and when you reach this bunker,
you lay down grazing fire
on this defilade.
I think that's pretty simple.
Anybody got any questions so far?
What's a flank?
- [Toni] A defilade?
- [Robert] Yeah, what's grazing fire?
- I need a drink!
- [Robert] Why don't we just
shoot right at 'em?
[Man over pa] Step into the line of...
[Explosion]
[Truck crashing]
[Gunfire]
[Indistinct shouting]
[In Spanish]
[Explosion]
Wolverines!
[Indistinct shouting]
[Gunfire]
- [Boy] Come on!
- [Robert] Move it! Take it! Go!
Come on! Move it! Get outta here!
[Gunfire, explosions]
[Robert] Come on, here's your chance!
Move! We're running out of time!
We're all gonna die! Die standing up!
Grenade!
[Explosions]
[Indistinct shouting]
Do svidaniya!
[Explosions]
[General, in Russian]
- [Soldier shouts in Spanish]
- [Gunfire]
[In Russian]
- [Boy] All right, colonel!
- [Grunting]
[Laughs]
- [Boy] Oh, get up, you big sissy!
- [Robert] All right!
And he's down!
Great play, by Matt eckert!
- [Matt] Hey.
- [Andy] All right.
- [Robert] Huddle up, folks.
- [Matt] All right.
[Jed] That's a pretty good catch.
[Robert]
All right, you cover Matt this play.
Are you okay?
A little harder down
on the ground, isn't it?
- Yeah!
- Come on, old man. Come on.
Oh, no, you come down here!
- How old's your wife?
- Huh?
How old's your wife?
- [Erica] What's she like?
- [Andy] Old, like me.
[Erica] I mean, what's she really like?
Feisty. Like you.
[Erica laughs]
Where'd you meet her?
Do you really wanna know this stuff?
I met her in a closet at a party.
I couldn't stand her at first, but...
Once it took...
I loved her so bad, it hurt.
You still love her like that?
Hey, you queers playing or what?
Fine.
- [Robert] Come on.
- [Jed] Good catch, Robert.
- All right, Matt, let's go!
- [Matt] Christ!
I told you to do a post pattern.
They brought their kids.
Said they didn't have food enough
to feed 'em through the winter.
They want to give 'em to you, jed.
This is enough, Mr. Mason.
I don't want any more.
You're a leader now.
They've heard of you on the other side.
Maybe all the way to California.
And there's some that say
they're gonna drop in some special forces
in the spring to help you out.
Green berets.
Spring's a long time away.
It's a lot of talk until then.
[Explosions, gunfire]
[Jet engine roaring]
[Robert] It's ours! It's ours!
- How can you tell?
- It's ours.
- Yeah!
- [Explosions]
[Jet engine roaring]
Fry 'em!
[Explosions in distance]
[Explosions]
[Jet engine roaring]
Jesus!
You gotta cross that.
Just part of it.
I hope our guys are still there.
So this is a battlefield, huh?
[Andy] It's real war, kid.
It's here every day.
Come with me, jed.
You can quit now.
Could you?
Don't give me that crap.
Wake up in the morning.
Grow old.
[Tank approaching]
Move it! Come on, move it,
move it! Let's go, let's go!
[Jed] Get down!
Down, down, down, down, down!
[Andy] Stay down! He can't see us!
[Jed] Get down, aardvark!
- [Cannon fires]
- [Shouting]
[Explosion in distance]
- [Cannon fires]
- [Shouting]
[Tank engine rumbling]
[Aardvark] He's looking for us!
[Andy] He sure is.
- [Cannon fires]
- [Aardvark whimpering] No! No!
I can't stand it! I can't stand it! Stop!
- Get down!
- [Jed] Get down! Get down!
[Andy] Shut up! Get down!
[Cannons firing, explosions]
[Aardvark shouting]
[Aardvark screaming, panting]
All right, run! Everybody get outta here!
[Jed] What are you doing? Goddamn it!
- [Andy grunts]
- [Aardvark] Christ!
[Gunfire]
- [Aardvark] I'm coming up there!
- [Gunfire]
[Aardvark] I got it!
[Andy] Get outta here, kid!
There's a world of hurt
coming down! Get out!
[Aardvark] I'm staying with you, colonel!
[Robert] Take him out with your rpg, Matt!
[Matt] It won't lock! It won't lock!
[Indistinct shouting]
[Matt] Give me another rocket!
[Gunfire]
[Groans]
Aardvark!
[Gunfire continues]
- [Matt] Eat me!
- [Man screams]
-[Grunts]
oh!
[Moaning]
[Jed] No! No!
- [Grunting, moaning]
- [Explosion]
[Andy] Come on, buddies, come and get 'em!
Shoot straight... for once...
- [Explosion]
- You army...
Pukes.
It's useless! He's dead!
Let's go! Go! Go!
[Cannon firing, explosion]
[Sobbing]
Ever love anybody?
I'll... never love anybody again!
If you didn't love anybody,
you'd never even be here.
- [Sobbing]
- Where are we gonna Bury 'em?
There's not much left to Bury.
[Sobbing] Oh, god. Oh, god.
[Danny] These were good friends.
Take them away from here
to some place safe...
Where this world never happened.
And, as we remember...
Please let them forget, o lord...
So they can be little again.
Amen.
[Matt whispering] Jed.
- Jed.
- [Jed] What are you whispering for?
[Matt whispering] It feels quiet.
You should get some sleep.
It's getting late.
[Jed] I'm okay.
[Matt] It's kinda strange, isn't it?
How the mountains pay us
no attention at all?
You laugh or you cry.
The wind just keeps on blowing.
It was bound to happen sooner or later.
Getting pretty lean on feelings,
aren't you?
Can't afford 'em.
Even if that had been me? [Sighing]
I was talking to the group, jed.
It doesn't look good.
They're all talking about quitting.
It seemed like they
lost the stomach for it.
Except for Robert.
And you?
I'm your brother.
Just make it count.
[March playing]
[Choir singing in Russian]
[Speaking Russian]
[In Russian]
[Beeping]
[Beeping becomes more high-pitched]
[Beeping continues]
- [Gunfire]
- [Men screaming]
- [Explosion]
- [Man shouts]
[Gunfire continues]
[Men screaming]
[Explosion]
[Explosions]
- [Men screaming]
- [Gunfire]
[Man whimpering]
[Gunshot]
Danny, your bolt's open. It's jammed.
Dannylhey!
- Sprechen sie deutsch?
- So what if he does? You don't!
We'd better get out of here.
- [Erica] Ghabla inglés?
- Shoot him!
- What is this thing?
- What is it?
Who's coming after us? Where are they?
Rub a butt on him!
Ah!
[In Russian accent] Suck at you!
God damn for you mother!
I hear a chopper,
and I'm gonna blow your brains out!
Go die, yankee!
- Die!
- God damn you...
Gorsky, stepan yevgenyvitch...
[Robert] No one gives a damn who you are!
- They're gonna hurt him!
- Good!
[Matt] Hey, hey, hey, look!
This thing's got an arrow!
It's po... it's pointing.
- It's...
- [Jed] Where?
Where? Where?
Right here.
[Beeping]
[Beeping becomes higher-pitched]
[Jed] Daryl...
[Beeping becomes lower-pitched]
Where is it?
God damn it, where's the bug?
- [Daryl] They made me swallow it.
- [Matt] Daryl, what have you done?
I went into town.
And got caught?
And went and got caught!
- Why?
- Because you said we couldn't.
[Robert]
You told them where we were, didn't you?
You told 'em!
My father turned me in.
Oh, god, they did things
you can't imagine.
[Jed whimpering]
[Wailing]
You son of a bitch!
Do you want blindfolds?
This violates the Geneva convention.
I never heard of it!
Dog face! I show you how Soviet dies!
[Robert] I've seen it before, pal.
[Danny] This isn't happening.
This isn't happening! Jed, let him go!
[Jed] Shut up, Danny!
- [Danny] He was one of us!
- [Jed] Shut up!
[Robert] He told them where we were!
He did. Now, get your rifles.
- [Jed] What did you say?
- I said no! We're not doing it!
Boy, say at me you are friend,
so I will not die alone.
[Matt] What's the difference, jed, huh?
- [Robert] I'll do it.
- [Matt] Shut up, Robert!
Tell me, what's the difference
between us and them?
Because we live here!
[Screams]
[Gunshot]
Don't shoot!
Don't shoot! Don't shoot me, jed!
[Sobbing] Don't shoot me, jed!
[Jed growling]
[Panting, sobbing]
- [Gunfire]
- [Daryl screams]
[Panting]
[Sobbing, coughing]
[Horse whinnies]
[Crying]
[Imitating bird call]
[Bird squawking]
How many of those you got left?
[Matt] Four.
Ready...
No, wait, wait! Don't! Stop!
[Matt] What do you say? You hungry?
[Imitating bird call]
[Jed whispers] Go, Toni!
[Hooves thudding]
[Jed] Let's get it fast
and get back to the rock.
Come on.
[Erica moaning]
[Matt] It's been so long.
[Laughs]
Quiet, quiet, quiet!
[Helicopter approaching]
-. -[Gunfire]
- [Erlca] Oh, my god!
- [Matt] Holy shit!
- [Toni] Ah!
- [Matt] Toni, get down!
- [Erica] Toni!
[Matt] Toni, get down! Stay down!
- [Jed] Toni?
- [Matt] Stay down!
Let's go! Get on your horses!
- Let's get outta here! Move it!
- [Matt] Move it! Come on!
[Erica] Go!
[Matt] Erica, come on! Get on! Come on!
- [Erica] Danny...
- [Jed] Let's go! Let's go!
Come on!
[Explosions]
[Matt] Come on, let's go!
Yah!
[Jed] Go on! Go on!
[Toni yells]
Toni?
Toni!
[Helicopter whirring]
[Horse whinnies]
[Explosion]
Wolverines!
[Gunfire]
[Helicopter whirring]
I'm killed, jed.
And... don't let 'em get me.
'Cause they'll make me talk.
[No audible dialogue]
Where's your gun?
I want you to do it.
[Gun clicks]
I can't.
[Jed] I can't, Toni. I can't.
It's okay.
Give me a grenade.
I don't wanna be too cold. Okay?
Pull the pin for me.
I'm just gonna stay here...
And listen to the wind a while, okay?
You go.
[In Russian]
[Speaking Russian]
[Explosion in distance]
[Birds calling]
All right, now listen to me.
You two are gonna wait up here
until the troops pull back into town.
All right. You'll know when that happens.
When they do, you're gonna
head out for the plains.
- What about you?
- I gotta stick around...
And stir things up a little bit
so you can make it out.
- We're going with you, Matty.
- [Matt] No.
- Yeah.
- We're going with you!
Will you listen to me?
We are... we are all that's left.
Somebody's gotta... somebody's gotta live.
Somebody's gotta make it.
[Crying]
Me and jed, we're all used up.
[Sobbing] No...
I'm never gonna forget.
As long as I live...
I'll never forget.
Don't.
Matt...
You're never gonna know who won.
Who will?
[Matt] You know, we could make it, jed.
We've done a lot tougher than this before.
We could cause a diversion,
get outta here, head back
to the mountains.
I love you, Matty.
I know.
I love you, too, jed.
You know?
It's hard being brothers, isn't it?
Let's go.
[Colonel Bella's voice, in Spanish]
[Explosion in distance]
[Explosions continue]
- [Men shouting]
- [Gunfire]
[Men shouting]
[Screaming]
[Gunfire]
[Soldiers speaking Spanish indistinctly]
[Shouting in Spanish]
[Soldiers shouting indistinctly]
- [Explosion]
- [Soldier screams]
[Gunfire]
Come on! Let's go, let's go!
[Gunfire, explosions]
[Speaking Spanish]
[Explosion in distance]
[Gunfire]
[Explosion]
[Screaming]
[In Russian]
[Soldier speaking Russian]
[Soldiers speaking Russian indistinctly]
[Whistle blowing]
[In Russian]
[Speaking Russian]
[Gunfire]
[Matt grunts]
[Matt whispering indistinctly]
Youlose.
- [Speaking Russian]
- [Gunfire]
[Screaming]
[Gunshots]
[Coughs]
[Soldiers speaking Spanish in distance]
[In Spanish] God bless.
You can rest now.
Just hang on, Matty.
[Panting]
Oh, Matty. It's okay, Matty.
It's okay. Just hang on, Matty.
Daddy'll be here soon, Matty.
Hang on, Matty.
Come on, Matty. Daddy'll be here soon.
[Grunting]
It's okay. Come on, Matty.
I'll hold you as long as I can, Matty.
I'll hold you as long as I can.
You can lean on me.
I'm so tired.
So tired.
[Danny] We're free now.
Free.
[Erica] I never saw the brothers again.
In time, this war,
like every other war, ended.
But I never forgot.
And I come to this place often,
though no one else does.
"In the early days of world war III,
guerrillas, mostly children,
placed the names of their lost
upon this rock.
They fought here alone
and gave up their lives...
'So that this nation shall not
perish from the earth."'